Saturdays and Sundays and after school. Then the
next year I decided that I could learn to type and I
would learn to type and I'd get me a job at the
courthouse. Well, I only had a hunt and pick system
of typing And when I went to work, they put me to, I
always had a fairly good legible hand, and they put
me to copying off the evaluation on the evaluation
sheets of the county in the sheriff's office. And
then I did that for four years. And then I got
married. And from then on, I did just a little bit of
that. I clerked and I stole them. And then I stood
for a step and taught school. Then I decided that
was too hard. After I taught, let's see, I taught
four years. And then I had a little boy. And I stayed
at home with him until he was ready to go to school.
And then I went, that was in 45, 36, well, I went
back. Just got my certificate. Finished out the
superintendency and the principal, taught
again. Then I was city tax assessor, the first
woman to ever hold office in Johnson City. City tax
assessor and collector. That was when we started
to organize the city. And I took up the taxes, did
the assessing and whatnot for the city. And then I
decided to go to college in 48. And I went down and
took 12 hours. And I made the A honor roll, which I
got to take an extra three hours if you carry the B
honor roll system. So I made an A, so I got to carry
it. Then in the fall, I came back and started
teaching school again. and go to school every
night at Trinity. I'd catch the 6 o'clock. No, at
that time it ran at 2.30, and my first grade was out
at 2.30, and the bus stopped right over here where
the U-Totem is. It was not a U-Totem then, but it was
a big grocery store. And I would meet the bus there
and get on it from school and go to San Antonio to
Trinity University. And I'd catch the bus out at 12
o'clock at night and come back to Johnson City and
get to school the next morning at 8. I learned to
read on the bus and I learned to study on the bus.
That's how I kept going until I got my degree.
That's why I say when I lose faith, I remember you.
And then on Saturdays, I always had all-day
classes on Saturday. Every Saturday I had all-day
classes.
Sunday was the only day I had an offer to study for
preparation.
That was to keep up my schoolwork and everything
else.
It's a lot of determination. And to sell yourself
that you can do it. And you're as smart as the next
one. You may not be. But if you can sell yourself
that you can do it, then you will. Yeah. It was a hard
thing for me to do, to sell myself that I was as smart
as Kitty Clyde or I was as smart as Margaret or as
Linda. I could do anything they could do. Now,
that's not a job. But I backed my ears and did it. And
at the same time, I think you enjoyed life, too. I
did. I enjoyed going to school. I enjoyed
learning. It was a wonderful thing to me. It just
gave me a different outlook on life altogether.
And I look back today and think, well, how
fortunate I was just to make myself do the thing
that couldn't be done. And I did it. And I'm proud of
it. I think so.
But you came from a different background, and your
roots were... I mean, you learned the history you
live now. You bet. You know that. That's right,
too.
That's quite a musty one for candy. Well, honey,
I've got some homemade candy. Oh, no, no, no, no. I
just needed one little piece of candy. If you break
out the candy, I'm going to break out the weight.
Well, here's all kinds of dookie candy.
Oh,
no.
Look at that. Porcupines. Come on, Steve. One. Oh,
no. That's got dates in it and everything else. No,
it don't. Double dates and that. What does it have?
Well, something you wouldn't even think about,
couldn't you? There's no telling.
It looks good. Of course it's good. What's wrong
with you? I'm going to ask you a question. How long
did you live before you had the electricity to live
with? I mean, that's just a simple thing that
everybody takes for granted. Well, honey, I was
born in 1905, and we didn't have any electricity
here until the 40s. That's what I thought. All
right. Can you add, subtract, or multiply?
Mm-hmm. There you are. That's how long, I know. We
had a... I wanted to hear you say it. Down at the
ranch, we had a carbide light plant. Mm-hmm. Okay.
We used that every once in a while, but not very
often. Most of the time it's coal oil because
carbide was very expensive for us to buy. Now, we
just didn't have it all the time. That's the way it
was. My daddy went through this country talking to
people and buying up easements where they also
already put their lines through you. And you know
some of them were so bitter against it that he took
an act of Congress to get them to sign an easement to
go over their land. That's how far back we were.
Life was just slow. Yes, ma'am. They say the 20th
century didn't get to Texas until the 40s in many
ways. That's right. 40s and 50s in some places up
here. You bet. Very true. I mean, but it's not that
the people are backwards. It's that the people
were in a time frame that is, was a time frame that we
lived with a lot longer than we've lived with the
time frame we're in now, right? That's right. I
mean, that's electricity. We did not live beyond
our means. No. And we didn't have it. We couldn't
produce it. But you were not a backwards people.
No, we were never backwards. And even though we
didn't have radios until late. And we didn't have
electricity. We didn't have any of the finer
things of life. And our mail, our newspapers were
weekly. And no, well, the only freight we had was on
a flatbed truck, and that didn't come in here until
in the 30s. And the 15s and 20s is all done by horse
and mule and wagon and we just lived in a time that
you grew your food and you lived off of the land and
you didn't you didn't spend money. You didn't have
it. And there wasn't something to run out of your
five minutes and spend it on? No, sir. No, you
didn't.
You take your eggs and your milk, or I mean your eggs
and your cream and your butter to town and you sold
it. You bought that much beans and you had your
bacon and You had your eggs. You brought your wheat
into town. Right down there at that cross mill was a
gin and a mill, flour mill and a corn mill. You'd
bring them into town. You had your own flour. You
had your own mill. You bought your sugar by 100
pounds, and that would last you a whole year.
That's right. That's it. Because you used sardine
and molasses, and you used honey for your
sweetening a lot. You didn't use sugar like we do it
today. No. That's an intake. That's right. And you
lived at home. Let me ask you a question. I remember
even when you speak about your mother, you told me
that she spent a lot of time, even though she had a
hard life, writing songs. She did. She had some of
the prettiest songs. I've read some of them. And I
would love to have copies of all those. My daddy and
my mother sang together beautifully. I'm telling
you. Now, that's happy memories. That's living.
When the night work was over and everything was
done, we had a great long porch at the ranch in the
summertime. We'd sit out there. And she would pick
the guitar and they would sing. And she'd put it
down and maybe just, they'd just sing without it.
And, you know, we listened to them. And we thought
that they were just, that was just something
wonderful. And it was. It is. And you look back and
you really enjoy it. And we'd get ready to go to bed.
I think of the Waltons. Well, they'll say
goodnight to all of them. Well, in place of that,
mother always sat in a rocking chair, and my daddy
sat in a straight back chair. And we'd go by, and
we'd kiss mother goodnight. And she'd say, now
sweet dreams, but I'll be in to hear your prayers.
Didn't make any difference how cold, how wet, or
whatnot, or how tired. That was ritual with
mother. We said our prayers. And he wasn't now
laying me down to sleep.
It was really a little prayer. But it always wound
up. Make me a good girl. Make me a better girl.
Make me mind my mother. That was two things. Not
that she told us, but she'd tell us. You pray for the
things that you know you need. And that was one of
them. Make me a better girl. Help me to mind my
mother. Mother told us that she told us not to do
something. She said, every time you don't do it,
when I tell you, you'll have trouble. And honest to
goodness, that was just as sure as shooting that
happened. Made her believe her. But that was one of
the things that, to me, was the happiest times of my
life. We didn't have a whole lot. We had a lot of
love. And you can take a lot of hardship as long as
you've got love. But your mother came from a loving
family, didn't she? Was your mom's family a hard
life family? Well, grandfather and grandmother
always had more than a good living. But they were
good managers. My daddy, bless his heart, he was
the sweetest thing that ever lived. And he never
met a person that he couldn't see some good in. I
don't care who he was. I never heard my father say
there wasn't some good in the worst people. He
loved everybody. And he was his own worst enemy.
Uncle Tom, I want to borrow some money today. Well,
how much do you need? Run down his pocket. Maybe the
last time he'd see Uncle Tom. That'd be it. He was,
that's the way it went.
And I can remember, I'll never forget if I lived to
be a thousand years old. After my father had been
dead about two weeks, mother and i were in town
mother didn't like to drive and i went down the
range and brought her in she wanted to attend some
business i met one of the corley boys he says aunt
kitty i want to see you just a minute he walked over
of course aunt kitty and uncle tom that was the way
affectionately everyone spoke of them and Mama
said, well, what is it that you need or you want? He
said, Uncle Tom loaned me $5 before he died, that
two weeks, and said, I want to pay you back.
If she could have collected a third of what she had,
that was just one of the good ones that came across.
And was less able to pay than any that I know of that
was on the books. But yet he paid his. But so many of
the others felt like that mother never knew it.
Yes, forgot it. But this was her house, right? She
built this house after 35.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. That's licking good candy. It
sure is.
Really good. I bet you're getting tired. Well,
probably so. I am too.
So what time are you going to go down tomorrow? I
don't know. They keep doing what I get up for. What I
have to get up for. True. You're a lady of leisure
now. Hmm. I'm not a lady of leisure or pleasure, but
I'm not going to get up early. If I get up 8 o'clock,
that's fine. That sounds good. I don't see any use
in getting up early. You've gotten up early long
enough. You've spent half your life getting up
early. This morning I got up at 3 o'clock and set my
yeast. That's right. I baked three loaves of bread
this morning. And forgot it. You know what I mean?
And I let it rise too, and it's going to be wasp
nasty. But that's all right. It's going to eat. I'm
not going to do away with
it. It's going to be coarse-poured. The other I
have in there is real fine. It's nice. I didn't let
it rise too. I forgot it. Yeah, and he called me at
Fredericksburg
and he said,
I know you have a good job, and I know you're
satisfied. But there's one thing I want you to do
for me. And I know you can do it." And I said, well,
Linda, what in the world could that be? He said, I
want you to go into San Antonio. And then it was a
job, on-the-job training program that he put out.
And you see, and you get jobs for these little boys
and girls in San Antonio that are capable and
willing to work and place them. And I want you to do
that. And I said, well, what district, what part of
San Antonio? Well, that was over in the Edgewood
District, and that was one of the poorest
districts. And boy, I never worked as hard in all my
life as I did right there. But it paid dividends. I
grant you. But for the same token, it was one of the
hardest things I ever tried to do in my life. And
that's why I was in second grade teacher. And then I
worked there a couple of years. And I said, now
that's sufficient. I'm going. So I went to the
north side. And there's where I finished up. And I
helped open up the Lackawanna City Elementary
School. And then when they opened up Collins
North, my principal said, he went over to open it
up. He said, well, I have to have some old teachers
that know what they're doing to put this thing on
the right track. He said, if I open this up, can I
pick my teachers? And the superintendent of the
district said, yes. Well, I was picked to go over
there. And then that was another thing. We had a
program. that
we taught really it was things that should have
been taught in the home but we had it at school and it
was more or less on self-rule and Now do you think,
if you do this, do you think that all the others are
going to accept that and that's the way to treat
people? And those little sixth graders, man, they
would ante up right quick and they fell in line with
all this self-discipline and you'd walk in that
realm of mind if I were not there and you could hear a
pin drop. Because one would call down the other and
say, no, that's not right, don't do that. Miss Abel
won't like that. That's not the way we're supposed
to do it. Do you think they'd cut in line for one
another? That's not right. You're infringing on
the other folks. He was there first. Don't get in
front of him. Get behind him. Take your turn. And
things like that. And they would get in, and I'd
give them the opportunity to discuss all major
problems that came out in the paper of a morning.
What do you think about this? Are they handling
this right? They were taught to rely on their own
judgment.
And how to do that. Then I was put over to the
district. He really just picked me up and said, now
you go do this. That's how I went. He respected your
opinions. He didn't know he was listening to them.
Well, he didn't to a great extent, yet he did in the
long run, too. He loved me, and I know it, and I loved
him. We'd fuss and we'd fight. But by the same
token, blood runs deeper than water. They might be
meeting today, but any time they do, they're...
When they began to down him and say, he did this, I
can name so many good things that he did, that we
have quite a battle. and I believe as strong as I
believe that the sun will come up in the east
tomorrow that history will deal with him as a good
president and not as a falsifying president I may
not ever see the day or know it but I believe that
truly there isn't a president living or dead That
you can't go back and find the skeleton in that
closet if you look there from far enough and deep
enough. And he's no exception to the rule. But
right now they make it as though it's a mountain and
that's a bunch of balloon. It's newsworthy and
sellable, right? Well, I don't know whether it's
even... People much rather read something about a
president that talks about his mistakes than
about his successes. That is success. That is very
true. And it's always better than good for
reading. You bet. But as I said before, we had such a
hard time getting an education. We didn't have
free school. That was out. It was a five-month
school, and if you could do it in five months, you
were good. And if you couldn't, well, that was bad.
But they'd make an effort. Our parents make all the
effort in the world to send us to school at seven
months. But both of them on each side of the house
being teachers, it wasn't no problem to keep us at
home and make us do our work. So we were not too
handicapped in lots of respects. But it just burns
me up to think that a kid will lay out of school when
the bus comes to his door and pick him up and we'd
have to ride horseback and take our cold lunch and
time we'd lope a horse and it'd joke up and down and
be all crumbs when we'd get here and we'd eat it or do
it that. And then these kids lazy things can't even
get there on time. Shh. I just don't. I don't have
any patience with people like that. Well, I guess
it sounds better. You better cut your deal off.
Why? Okay, I just cut it off a minute ago. You want to
talk to me for a while? Well, I will if you've got a
bet. Sure. If that's what you want. Well, I think we
ought to. I just...
Might as well continue talking. Well, it's
whatever you want. Well, it seems it's going to be a
book, so might as well. It's a lot to talk about. I
also realize that your grandkids are going to have
these tapes, too, one of these days. There's some
good stuff on them. I'll have them transcribed. I
told that to Pat. That transcribed and edited the
things that are repeats and stuff we've talked
about, but give them a good piece of information,
too. They won't get it because they're not doing
it. No, they're not doing it. But your
great-grandkids are going to want it. Well, I
don't know. I have Davies' children may care to
listen to it. Oh, sure, because Pat's geared up for
it. But I doubt that the others will because
they... Well, you never can tell. There's always
that exceptional little gene that pops up there
and makes one of them different. You can't count on
the future. Oh, that's right, too. And good seeds
somewhere along the way that'll turn out just like
you. You know, I was talking to Corky coming in from
the ranch the other day. I said, Corky, how many
times have I pointed out to you and told you things
along this highway that... No historian has ever
put down at all. I know. And it's time that somebody
do it. That's right. Now, that old Oddfellow
building over at Round Mountain. Yeah, I remember
that. The Oddfellow's Lodge had a 99-year lease on
that. Did it? And it will be up in, well, 19... I
believe it's 1990. I believe that's when the lease
is up.
But of course they've sold it. We have no odd
fellows here. But that still doesn't give a clear
title and a clear lead to it until this is all set
aside. Now they've improved it and worked it, but
that was a liver stable underneath it. All right,
there's very few people really know what a liver
stable was. Of this generation that's growing up.
And the stalls were there, and it really was a pony
express. I can remember when they would bring
things from the mail carrier to this, from Marble
Falls to Johnson City that was carried in a hack.
Right. Just a plain old hat. And that was when Roy
Stubbs would come by and say, come on, kids. Tom
loaned one of these kids to me to help ferry this
mail across down here at this crossing. Why?
Children don't know what ferrying a male across
the crossing is. Well, they don't teach it to you in
history classes now. I mean, the naivety that goes
out from the professor's mouth to the student is a
crime. They don't talk about those things. No,
they don't. I've got to tell you something real
quick. I thought about you doing something for me
also, which would be very beneficial, is if we
could sit down and have you tell a straight segment
of history, such as ferry crossing, such as
cattle, as your gift to students in the future.
Have you thought about doing that? No, I haven't. I
thought that I cannot do it. You would be the one to
say, just as if you were standing in front of a
mirror yourself and setting this tape down and
recording what you would be teaching a group of
children about history in Blanco County. I think
that this could be a beneficial segment of
historic tapes to be used in classrooms. And I
would like to ask you to do it, because if I decide
not to go into something like social work or
something, I'm going to go right on back into the
classroom. And I know that it would be a marvelous
segment to go along with teaching students,
because if I teach, it's going to be social
studies. Now, Annie, do you know that because we
didn't have any railroad connection. And the only
reason it was one at Marble Falls, and it was laid
down for the purpose of carrying the granite to
build the capital at Austin. Now that was reason
for that. Because they quarried it in Marble
Falls, and they sent it to Austin. That's right.
And they sent it in to Austin. That was after they
ran out of the limestone, and that's what was first
to be built out of was limestone. worked at three
different quarries to get this, and they didn't
have enough. So they, Dara's, offered the granite
if they would send the labor. So the Texas prison
guards were sent out there to cut the... Oh, yeah.
I've heard stories about the prisoners tunneling
through that granite trying to escape. They dug
tunnels back in there. Sure they have. And they
were... That was one of them. Well, Steve's
brother-in-law teaches in the New York public
schools, and I have thought what a surprise to be
able to send to him a segment of, hello, this is
Alan, this is a segment of Texas history which we'd
like to share with you and your students here in New
York City at John Bowne Elementary School. Sure.
But I think it would be very beneficial. It would be
very beneficial. Now, you take this lithographic
quarry that's over at Marble Falls. That's the
only one in the state of Texas. Right. And they use
that all together in every airplane movement that
they have from there. And it's quarried right
here. Yeah. Right. You want to get your phone?